# Blumenstock response

Michael Cui

There is no doubt that big data starts a revolution not only in the scientific area but also in human development. People always need information to solve global problems. The difference is, instead of doing surveys, now we can easily obtain this information by collecting big data from cell phones and the images provided by satellites, which greatly increases the efficiency and enhances the ability to reach to those third world countries. Just as the author suggests, the same algorithms that companies use to match advertisements to people online can also be used for allocating resources to that poverty. With the big data, we can accurately target the disadvantaged areas and used a more focused and timely way to distribute humanitarian aid. Besides, big data can also track the effects of natural disasters, just like what google did in 2009. A few weeks before the H1N1 virus made headlines, Google could predict the spread of the winter flu in the US by looking at what people were searching for on the internet. In this case, the same as Blumenstock conducts in the article, big data is a more useful indicator for the government to solve the natural disaster. 

However, “don’t forget people in the use of big data for development nature”. Big data, even as one of the most effective boosters for the acceleration of human development, still has its pitfalls. In the author’s words, the use of big data is “lack of validation” and might have “unanticipated effects”. Obviously, people who use big data will probably abandon the old ways that have been developed and revised over the decades. In contrast, big data still has lots of hidden peril. For instance, the generalization of data is not always tested and the data itself might be biased, which will decrease the accuracy. 

Nonetheless, Blumenstock doesn’t deny the value of big data. In the article, he suggests that to be better, big data should be validated and customized. In conclusion, collaboration and integration is his goal. As it is said in the article, “New sources of data should not replace, old sources.” We can integrate the conventional way and the new big data method to ensure the validation. Besides, the collaboration between data scientists and other private sectors can take local context into account. This customization can increase the promotion of big data has on human development.

Overall, Blumenstock holds the notion that big data should be humble as it is useful while not perfect yet. In this revolution, besides accuracy and efficiency, people’s privacy is facing a severe challenge. Good intent is not enough in big data. It reminds me of the speech held by Mr. Li, the CEO of Baidu. He said that people nowadays are willing to exchange their privacy for convenience. For example, people will tell Ubereat their home address for delivery service. However, this remark was condemned by the public. What these great internet companies like Google, Facebook do is to pursue secondary uses of personal data in many instances without having to go back to individuals to get their explicit consent. Even though these uses may have good intent, the public won’t pay for it. The violation of privacy always brings a negative effect on human development. Therefore, transparency is really significant since it can give people confidence. In the real world, however, transparency is not that easy. As Blumenstock said in the article, “the data that underpin artificial intelligence applications are generally owned and controlled by private companies, who have little incentive to do anything except maximizing profits.” To achieve the balancing act, regulation is crucial. In this big-data age, we should focus more on holding data users accountable for what they do. In this perspective, they will use data in the right place and be as transparent as possible. This is the key to maximize the effect of big data on human development. 

Just like every sword has two sides, big data is essential for those poor countries to get rid of the poverty cycle as it will make aid more timely and effective, while still have pitfalls like inaccuracy and violation of privacy. What Blumenstock wants to warn people is that big data is not perfect. We can not blindly view big data as the only approach to human development.  
