## Response to Anderson and Kitchen

**Michael Cui**

**Feb 25th**

#### Question:

In Anderson’s 2008 Wired article he describes how the data deluge is serving to make the scientific theory obsolete. Kitchen provides a rebuttal to Anderson’s argument that theory is dead with his supposition that in fact we have entered a fourth paradigm. What do you think? Do you believe theory is dead? Do you think we have indeed entered a paradigm shifting revolution for how we describe, analyze and understand the world? 

#### Response:

As we live in the Petabyte Age, the speed we producing data becomes faster than we analyze them. Accordingly, how we treat with these massive data is one of the most significant issues. According to Anderson said in The End of Theory: The Data Deluge Makes the Scientific Method Obsolete, ‘Correlation is enough.’...We can analyze the data without hypotheses about what it might show.” He gives the example of Google, which takes over the advertising world without knowing the conventions of this particular area but only relies on the enormous databases and applied mathematics. In his opinion, under the revolution of data science, the old scientific method is obsolete. If people can directly get the correlation and prediction without learning the reason behind it, why should we care about theory? Contra, Kitchen holds different notions. He acknowledges that big data will bring a new approach to science while claims his concerns about this technology revolution, such as biased data. He suggests that compared to empiricism, “wherein the data can speak for themselves free of theory,” the possible form is the data-driven science, which modifies the accepted scientific method. This new paradigm has to base on a robust theoretical framework that needs to be worked through and debated. 

It is no doubt that big data will make a big difference to the existing scientific method, but the attitude towards big data should be humble. Anderson is partially correct that the power of theory will be reduced. However, it will never die. The use of big data should be based on the purpose. Thus, big data should play different roles in different fields. For example, in the stock market, based on the purpose is to make money from buying and selling stocks, the machine can analyze the pattern of changes in price and make accurate predictions than people. In the science field, nevertheless, letting big data take over the whole research process is not appropriate. People develop the science for better understanding of the world instead of just predicting the future. We need theory in science to push the human race forward, just like what we did for the past thousands of years. Besides, this new data technique is not mature yet. The problem overfitting and the biased data are still the big hinder to have more accurate results. Compared to Anderson, I trend to agree what Kitchen said: “there is an urgent need for wider critical reflection on the epistemological implications of Big Data and data analytics.”
