# Response to Jahan and Rosling

Michael Cui

People should not merely focus on the economy when they talk about human development. Just like Selim Jahan introduces, “A process of enlarging human choices” is the eternal theme of human development, and income is not the whole picture. Indeed, we need to maximize the human potential by achieving a perfect balance between the increase in the capability of humans and the increase in opportunities to use such capabilities. Besides the theoretical definition, in his podcast, he gives some targeted issues about human development that required focus throughout the world. For instance, gender inequality is one of the biggest issues. Women are the primary caregivers in most societies and they need to have more rights and respect. More than that, Jahan mentions lots of other examples including informal sectors, the use of youth workers, etc. These are problems that relevant to people’s living conditions instead of income solely. To overcome these obstacles, Jahan points out the significance of the work rather than job employment. Those humanitarian aids and helps is the valuable work that can achieve social coherence and increase the understanding of each other, which results in a higher level of human development. 

As human development covers topics in so many different dimensions, how to measure becomes a question. In his podcast, Jahan emphasizes HDI, the best- known and most widely used index, as “crown jewel”. HDI measures average achievement in three dimensions: a long and healthy life, access to knowledge and a decent standard of living. These indicators are the basic requirement to fulfill a good living condition, which can directly reflect the level of human development. On account of these specific while limited dimensions, Jahan categorizes this approach as a “focus measure”. It is useful but people should not use it as the only way to assess human development. Instead, we should also consider those “breadth measures”, which usually put different indicators together and analyze them. In the podcast, Jahan makes an analogy between the focus measure and door and compares the breadth measure to a house. He warns people not to stop at the door when getting into the house.

Selim Jahan saw the picture of human development in a very macroscopical way. However, Hans Rosling’s view is more rational and scientific. He focuses more on the specific changes in different countries by using data. He gives examples to eliminate people’s wrong, preconceived ideas and shows them the importance of data science when understanding real-life cases. 

In Rosling’s ted talk, by analyzing the dynamic graph, he states that countries can promote their human development faster if they are healthy first. For instance, before the process reform and opening which brought money to China, the Chinese government first spent many years elevating their health level. In contrast, the United Arab Emirates didn’t reach a higher standard of health until Sheikh Zayed investing their money in health, even though they were always wealthy. In Rosling’s opinion, health is more essential than wealth for human development. In addition, as there are a lot of differences within countries, we can’t use the average data to make the estimation. In the ted talk, the speaker uses Uganda and Niger as examples. These two countries both have highly inequivalent income distribution: people in one area might be much richer than those in a different area within a country. As Rosling noted in the speech, “the improvement of the world must be highly contextualized”

Unlike Jahan who cares more about what to do, Rosling focuses on how to do. Not a single one of these can be omitted. To improve the level of human development, what we need is not only a comprehensive understanding but also a targeted, scientific way. 
